things that should be mentioned in the ET paper.

## Raspberry Pi 
- how to combine the power of Kali Linux with the portability and low cost of a Raspberry Pi.
- used the portability of the Raspberry Pi to test security assessment covertly at different locations, and have configured the Raspberry Pi to be managed remotely with little footprint.

## Raspberry Pi - 2nd Edition 
- There are very popular options out there such as, Arduino, Banana Pi, and even Intel with its newly announced Joule board. PORÓWNANIE INNYCH SBC
- WIFI Pineapple by Hak5 https://shop.hak5.org/

## Odcięcie zasilania zamiast proper shutdown
- tutaj wspaniały opis: https://raspberrypi.stackexchange.com/questions/73716/strange-problem-on-startup-cannot-open-access-to-console - jak obejsc problem
lepiej jest naprawić file system, dalej nalezalo:
	- wyjąć karte SD
	- włożyć ją do laptopa
	- zrobić $ umount /dev/sdc1 i $ umount /dev/sdc2
	- aby sprawdzić błędy można puścić $ fsck /dev/sdc1 i $ fsck /dev/sdc2
	- aby naprawić błędy automatycznie $ fsck -fy /dev/sdc1 i $ fsck -fy /dev/sdc2
	log w pliku fsck_log
- należy zwrócić uwagę jak znacznie szybciej po tej operacji OS się bootuje

## Niestabilność systemu kali linux arm dla RPi 3
- dla prawdziwej podrózy warto odpalić $journalctl -xb po boocie aby zobaczyć wszystkie service ktore mialy faila
- losowe zaprzestanie działania myszki usb Logitech - odpięcie nie rozwiązuje problemu, natomaist odpiecie i podpiecie do innego portu usb rozwiazuje, po powrocie do oryginalegno portu działa z powrotem.
- login loop dla lightdm (zmiana $ chown kali:kali .Xauthority)
- wolne działanie dla gnome i gdm3
- scdeamon missing? ($ sudo apt install scdeamon -y)

## O IP, NAT i PAT
see: https://opensource.com/article/18/5/how-find-ip-address-linux

Public and private IP addresses
To understand the significance of public and private IP addresses, let's have a look at a concept called NAT (Network Address Translation) and PAT (Port Address Translation).

Private addresses are used in Local Area Networks (LAN). They are bound to a specific network.

Public addresses are necessary for establishing external connectivity to other networks, most notably the "Worldwide Web" (www) of the Internet.

NAT is a translation of a private IP to a public one, and consists of three major types: static, dynamic, and PAT. In static NAT, one private IP is mapped to one public IP. A common example ru ydco is a firewall. In dynamic NAT, a private IP address is mapped to a public IP but from a pool of public IP addresses.

With a total of 2^32 IPv4 addresses, out of which approximately just 3.7 billion are public addresses, there are literally more people and devices than there are IP addresses. And yet we haven't run out of addresses. That's because of a concept called PAT, which allows for a single public IP address to be translated from multiple (generally all) private IP addresses using port numbers. Here, instead of assigning a public address to each device, a single public address is allocated to the external side, and private addresses are assigned to each device within the internal network. PAT is most widely used in residential wireless routers, which we use to connect to the Internet.

##LAF:
paper: A passive user-side solution for evil twin access point detection at public hotspots
- An evil twin is a kind of rogue APs. [...]
- 4.4 | Comparisons with other work
- takich testów jak oni nie przeprowadzimy :C

## Covering tracks
- tunneling
- ssh, all the tools in the 2nd Chapter Penetration Testing with Raspberry Pi - Second Edition

## Other books:
- Kali Linux - Assuring Security by Penetration Testing , Packt Publishing (by Tedi Heriyanto, Lee Allen, and Shakeel Ali)

## Turning WiFi interface to monitor mode
WPA/WPA2 supports many types of authentication beyond pre-shared keys. aircrack-ng can ONLY crack pre-shared keys. So make sure airodump-ng shows the network as having the authentication type of PSK, otherwise, don't bother trying to crack it.

Remember that just because you can receive packets from them does not mean you may will be able to transmit packets to them. The wireless card strength is typically less then the AP strength. So you have to be physically close enough for your transmitted packets to reach and be received by both the AP and the wireless client. You can confirm that you can communicate with the specific AP by following these instructions.

napisać o EAPoL, taki filtr należy zastosować w wiresharku

```
$ sudo ip link set IFACE down
$ sudo iw IFACE set monitor control
$ sudo ip link set IFACE up
# to check run:
$ sudo iw dev
```
opisać wybór karty sieciowej: 
stare - TP-LINK mają chipset **Qualcomm Atheros Communications AR9271 802.11n** i driver **ath9k_htc** z włączoną możliwością przejścia w *monitor mode*.
nowe - TP-LINK mają chipset **TP-Link TL-WN722N v2/v3 Realtek RTL8188EUS** i driver rtl8188eu, który nie ma możliwości włączenia *monitor mode* i karta może być używana wyłacznie w *managed mode*.


## WPA/WPA2 Password Cracking
napisać o WPA - mendeley artykuł
http://lastbit.com/pswcalc.asp - czas potrzebny na crunchowanie hasła
```
crunch [min char] [max char] {char set] | aircrack-ng -e [SSID Name] -w -/[location & name to store the capture]
Crunch 8 8 abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQR STUVWXYZ0123456789 | aircrack-ng -e PENTEST_NET -w - rootDesktop/WPA_Crack-01.cap
```
Osiąga temperatury ~85C. ~250 słów/sekunde, przy ~50C. ~300 słów/sekunde


## Connecting via ssh
$ ifconfig (net-tools requiered)
albo
$ hostname -I
aby dostac local_ip

$ nmap -sP $local_ip/24
zwróci adres RPi rpi_ip

ssh kali@$rpi_ip

## Copying files via ssh session (super!!! - sshfs)
https://www.simplified.guide/ssh/copy-file

$ scp remote_username@10.10.0.2:/remote/file.txt /local/directory

## Save file transfer
python script on 182 page of Second Edition

## Site Cloning i DNS chef i SEToolkit (mega!)
wiele do sprawdzenia, udaje się przechwytać ruch strony, hasło i login na przykład dla linuxquestion
Trzeba się jeszcze nauczyć o dns poisoning!

## Rogue Acces Point
wymagania: (lepiej jak będzie połączenie ethernet)
linki:
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIM-kdmKhnE
- https://null-byte.wonderhowto.com/how-to/build-pumpkin-pi-rogue-ap-mitm-framework-fits-your-pocket-0177792/

mitmAP:
SSLSTRIP 2.0 
DRIFTNET
można nawet zezwolić na WPA2 jeżeli sytuacja jest taka, że użytkownik spodziewa się hasła.

## WifiPumpkin3 
https://wifipumpkin3.github.io/docs/getting-started
bardzo dużo opcji wbudowanych, możliwość dodawania własnych, napisać o tym.

## Port scanner aby dostać liste hostów z którymi będzie się łaczył RAPDetector
https://nmap.org/book/synscan.html
https://nmap.org/book/scan-methods-null-fin-xmas-scan.html
opisać głośny, cichy, FIN scan, xmas scan
więcej w Python penetration testing Cookbook s61

## RAP Detector 
- napisać o TCP - SYN, SYN ACK, ACK, PSH ACK, ACK, FIN, RST

## Sniffer
- wybór sniffera pakietów: scapy ma wolny sniffer, lepiej uzywac tcpdumpa
- sniffer AC: https://pypi.org/project/nmcli/